Anyway, back to the fire…
The fire was burning quite merrily, blazing hugely, in fact. And it was the shouts and cries which came in from the street that had me and the old lady running outside.
Horror of horror’s!
From the chimney stack came flames and crackling roars, which would not have disgraced any volcano. The bleedin’ chimney was alight! And the laughing, jeering, kids were quickly dispatched, to alarm the Fire-Brigade.
Needless to state, I was quick to leave the scene, the penny safely tucked into my pocket! I can write that it was not unusual for chimneys to be set ablaze, certainly if the householder did not have a Chimney Sweep clean out the chimney on a regular basis.
Writing of shoe-polish, I remember a time when my elder brother and I were left alone in the house, with nothing but curiosity to carry our care.
I had been debating on becoming a shoe-shine boy and the question came up about shoe-polishing. I asked my sibling how I might get a shine as good as our father had on his army-boots. He advised me that
it was done with spit and polish, with the help of a burning match.
Taking my father’s boots out into the backyard, my brother showed me how to thinly smear the polish on the toe-caps, then hold a match near the polish, so it melted the polish, to then rub the liquefied polish into the leather, so, on rubbing, the shine came through. I watched with some admiration as my brother melted the polish and brought the toe-cap of one boot to a high shine, then put the boots away. I waited till a time when my brother had gone and, retrieving the boots and I copied my brother’s actions, smearing on a liberal dose of the black polish. It does me no justice to write of the results. Brief to write, I hid the smouldering remains underneath the coal in the coal-cupboard, under the stairs.
I remember a time when, exchanging a bicycle chain for a rabbit, I sneaked the rabbit into the backyard, where I kept it for some time, before I exchanged it for some American D.C. comics (A valuable
commodity, indeed!) At that time, one of my errands was to walk up to
Commercial Road, where there was a Social Welfare Office. There, queued all the hungry and needy and I would join the queue, waiting for hours with my ration book in my hand, to receive one bottle of concentrated orange juice, a tin of malt and a packet of small, round, cod-liver oil tablets. This was allowed by the Government of the time,
who understood our deprivation, not fully understanding that many of these life-giving items would be sold, the money going on beer and
cigarettes. Anyway, about the rabbit and the cod-liver oil tablets.
